Add testing guide (#46)
pyansys/dev-guide: doc/source/overview/dev_practices.rst

General Development Procedures
------------------------------

> To submit new code to a PyAnsys, first `fork <https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To submit new code to a PyAnsys library, first `fork <https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo>`_
```

> the repository (for example `PyMAPDL <https://github.com/pyansys/pymapdl>`_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the repository (for example, `PyMAPDL <https://github.com/pyansys/pymapdl>`_).
```

> the repository (for example `PyMAPDL <https://github.com/pyansys/pymapdl>`_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the repository (for example, `PyMAPDL <https://github.com/pyansys/pymapdl>`_)
```

> and then clone the forked repository to your local environment. Next, create a new branch based on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, clone the forked repository to your local environment. Next, create a new branch based on the
```

> and then clone the forked repository to your local environment. Next, create a new branch based on the
> `Branch Naming Conventions Section <#branch-naming-conventions>`__ in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and then clone the forked repository to your local environment. Next, using our
`branch naming conventions <#branch-naming-conventions>`__, create a new branch in
```

Testing
-------
Unit testing is critical for the sucessful continious integration and testing of

> any program or libraries belonging to the PyAnsys project are no exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any program or libraries belonging to the PyAnsys project.
```

> There are generally two types of libraries part of the PyAnsys project: those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PyAnsys project generally has two types of libraries: those
```

Reviewer: These two might best be described in a bulleted list.

Reviewer 2: @PipKat Great idea. Otherwise the sentence is a little bit difficult to read. I am doing it.

that interface or wrap functionality of a different Ansys product, service, or
application, or tools those that provide functionality. Both types of libraries

> should be tested, but the tests written will depend on purpose of the library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should be tested, but the tests written will depend on the purpose of the library.
```

For example, a library that is wrapping a gRPC interface would include tests of

> the gRPC methods exposed by the proto files and wrapped by the Python library, but would not be expected to test the functionality of the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the gRPC methods exposed by the proto files and wrapped by the Python library. They would not be expected to test the functionality of the server.
```

For example, if testing the gRPC method ``GetNode``:

.. code::

   message Node
   {
     int32      id = 1;
     double     x = 2;
     double     y = 3;
     double	z = 4;
   }

   message NodeRequest {
     int32		num = 1;
   }

   message NodeResponse {
     Node		node = 1;
   }

  service SomeService{

     rpc GetNode(NodeRequest)				returns (NodeResponse);
     // other methods
   }

> Then youyour unit test would test the wrapped python function (for example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then your unit test would test the wrapped python function (for example,
```

> ``get_node``).  For example the ``get_node`` method might be implemented as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``get_node``).  You might implement the ``get_node`` method with:
```

.. code:: python

   from ansys.product.service.v0 import service_pb2

   def get_node(self, index):
       """Return the coordinates of a node for a given index.

       Parameters
       ----------
       index : int
           Index of the node.

       Returns
       -------
       tuple
           Coordinates of the node.

       Examples
       --------
       >>> from ansys.product.service import SomeService
       >>> srv = SomeService()
       >>> srv.create_node(1, 4.5, 9.0, 3.2)
       >>> node = srv.get_node(1)
       >>> node
       (4.5, 9.0, 3.2)

       """
       resp = service_pb2.GetNode(index=index)
       return resp.x, resp.y, resp.z

> Your test would be implemented (within ``tests/test_nodes.py``):

Reviewer: It seems that we can remove the parentheses as this information seems essential.

.. code::

   def test_get_node(srv):
       srv.clear()

       node_index = 1
       node_coord = 0, 10, 20
       srv.create_node(node_index, node_coord*)
       assert srv.get_node(node_index) == node_coord

The goal of the unit test should be to test the wrapping of the interface rather

> than the product or service itself. In the case of the ``GetNode``, this method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
than the product or service itself. In the case of ``GetNode``, this method
```

should have already been tested when designing and developing the service.

Testing Framework
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
For consistency, PyAnsys tools and libraries should use either the `unit test

> <some link>`_ or `pytest <some link>`_ frameworks for unit testing. As detailed
> in the :ref:`repo_dir_struct`, unit tests should be placed into the ``tests``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<some link>`_ or `pytest <some link>`_ frameworks for unit testing. As described
in :ref:`repo_dir_struct`, unit tests should be placed into the ``tests``
```

> directory in the of the root directory of the library::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directory in the root directory of the library::
```

   tests/
       test_basic.py
       test_advanced.py

> Furthermore, any testing dependencies requirements should be included when using ``setup.py`` within a ``requirements_tests.txt`` file that is installed via::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, any requirements for testing dependencies should be included when using ``setup.py`` within a ``requirements_tests.txt`` file that is installed via::
```

.. code::

   pip install -r requirements_tests.txt

> Or included in ``pyproject.toml``. For example, when using the `filt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative is to include requirements for dependencie in ``pyproject.toml``. For example, when using the `filt
```

<missing_link>`_ build system::

   [project.optional-dependencies]
   test = [
       "pytest>=2.7.3",
       "pytest-cov",
   ]

> And then installed via::

Reviewer: We should format this as a complete sentence. Are the dependencies installed via the code presented next?

Reviewer 2: They are installed with this code snippet but it is done in a separate command prompt.
The code above is part of a file used for packaging.
I think that we can let it this way to show the separation.

   pip install .[test]

When using ``pytest``, test via::

   pytest

.. note::

>    Note that it is preferable to cd into the testing directory and run unit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   We recommend that you use ``cd`` to change to the ``testing`` directory and run unit
```

>    testing there as you will be testing the installed library (generally in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   testing there because you will be testing the installed library (generally in
```

   development mode ``pip install -e .``) rather than the source within the
   uninstalled "local" source. This catches files that might be missed by the
   installer, including any C extensions or additional internal packages.

Coverage
~~~~~~~~

> As Python is an interpreted language, developers of any Python library should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Python is an interpreted language, developers of a Python library should
```

> aim to have high coverage for their library as only syntax errors can be caught

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aim to have high coverage for their libraries as only syntax errors can be caught
```

> during the almost trivial compile time. Coverage is defined as parts of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
during the almost trivial compile times. Coverage is defined as parts of the
```

Reviewer 2: We usually use the word "compile time" such as "runtime". I think we can let it the way it is here.

> executable and usable source that are tested by unit tests, and the coverage for
> your library can be viewed using the ``pytest-cov`` library. For example::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
executable and usable source that are tested by unit tests. You can use the ``pytest-cov`` library
to view the coverage for your library. For example::
```

  $ pytest --cov numpydoc_validation
   ============================= test session starts ==============================
   platform linux -- Python 3.8.10, pytest-6.2.5, py-1.11.0, pluggy-1.0.0
   rootdir: /home/user/python/numpydoc_validation
   plugins: cov-3.0.0
   collected 1 item

   tests/test_validate.py .                                                 [100%]

   ---------- coverage: platform linux, python 3.8.10-final-0 -----------
   Name                               Stmts   Miss  Cover
   ------------------------------------------------------
   numpydoc_validation/__init__.py        2      0   100%
   numpydoc_validation/_validate.py      69      0   100%
   ------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL                                 71      0   100%

While 100% coverage is ideal, the law of diminishing returns often applies to

> the coverage of a Python library, and it is often sufficient, to achieve 80-90%
> coverage. For parts of your library that are difficult or impossible to test,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the coverage of a Python library. Consequently, achieving 80-90% coverage is often sufficient.
For parts of your library that are difficult or impossible to test,
```

> consider using ``# pragma: no cover`` at the end of method definition, branch,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consider using ``# pragma: no cover`` at the end of the method definition, branch,
```

or line to denote that part of the code cannot be reasonably tested.  For
example, if part of your module performs a simple ``import`` test of
``matplotlib`` and raises an error when the library is not installed, it is not
reasonable to attempt to test this and assume full coverage:

.. code:: python

   try:
       import matplotlib
   except ImportError:  # pragma: no cover

>        raise ImportError("Please install matplotlib to use this feature")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       raise ImportError("Install matplotlib to use this feature.")
```

.. note::
   You should only avoid coverage of parts of your library where you cannot
   reasonably test without an extensive testing suite or setup.  Most methods
   and classes, including edge cases, can be reasonable tested. Even parts of
   your code that raise errors like ``TypeError`` or ``ValueError`` when users

>    input the wrong data type or value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   input the wrong data type or value can be reasonably tested.
```

> Unit Testing within CI/CD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unit Testing Within CI/CD
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Effective CI/CD assumes that unit testing is developed during feature
development or bug fixes. However, given the limited scope of the local
development environment, it is often not possible to enforce testing on multiple

> platforms, or even, unit testing in general. However, with the right automated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
platforms, or even unit testing in general. However, with the right automated
```

CI/CD, such testing can still occur and be enforced automatically.

`GitHub Actions <gh actions link>`_ is the preferred automated CI/CD platform

> for running Python library unit tests for PyAnsys, and can be employed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for running Python library unit tests for PyAnsys. You can employ it
```

immediately by closing the project `template <link to

> github.com/pyansys/template>`_. For a basic overview of those unfamiliar of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
github.com/pyansys/template>`_. If you are unfamiliar with
```

> github.com/pyansys/template>`_. For a basic overview of those unfamiliar of
> GitHub Actions, read: `missing link <missing_link>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
github.com/pyansys/template>`_. If you are unfamiliar with GitHub Actions, see: `missing link <missing_link>`_
for an overview.
```

> **Sample Workflow**

Reviewer: If we are referring to the following sections, this should be a heading with the following entries as subheadings.

> The following sections detail the usage of a simple GitHub workflow for a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections describe the usage of a simple GitHub workflow for a
```

PyAnsys library:

**Setup**

> Include the name and when your job should be run at the top of the workflow ``.yml``::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Include the unit test name and when it should be run at the top of the workflow ``.yml``::
```

Reviewer 2: Here it is about the workflow name.

   name: Unit Testing

   on:
     pull_request:
     workflow_dispatch:
     push:
       tags:
         - "*"
       branches:
         - main

> Take note that here we run the this workflow on all pull requests and on demand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take note that this workflow runs on all pull requests and on demand
```

> with ``workflow_dispatch``, but limit it being run on commits to only tags and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with ``workflow_dispatch``. On commits, this workflow runs only on tags and
```

on the ``main`` branch.  This ensures that CI/CD is not run twice on every
commit for each PR, which may saturate available build or testing machines.

**Job Description**

> PyAnsys Libraries should run on the currently supported versions of Python on both Windows and Linux (and ideally Mac OS). Therefore, it is necessary to also test on both Linux and Windows for these versions of Python. Use the ``matrix`` run strategy for the job with both the latest images of Windows and Linux::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PyAnsys libraries should run on the currently supported versions of Python on both Windows and Linux (and ideally on Mac OS). Therefore, it is necessary to also test on both Linux and Windows for these versions of Python. Use the ``matrix`` run strategy for the job with both the latest images of Windows and Linux::
```

   jobs:
     unit_tests:
       name: Unit testing
       runs-on: ${{ matrix.os }}
       strategy:
         matrix:
           os: [windows-latest, ubuntu-latest]
           python-version: ['3.7', '3.8', '3.9', '3.10']

**Running the Tests**

> Each virtual machine within GitHub actions starts in a fresh state with no

Reviewer: Should it be GitHub Actions?

> software or source installed or downloaded. Therefore it is necessary to both
> clone the repository using the ``checkout`` action, as well as setup Python and
> install the necessary testing dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
software or source installed or downloaded. Therefore, you must clone the repository using the ``checkout`` action, set up Python, and install the necessary testing dependencies.
```

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Set up Python ${{ matrix.python-version }}
        uses: actions/setup-python@v1
        with:
          python-version: ${{ matrix.python-version }}

> If you are using ``setup.py``, your installation step will be::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using ``setup.py``, your installation step is::
```

      - name: Install the library
        run: |
          pip install .
          pip install -r requirements_test.txt

If you are using ``pyproject.toml`` with the ``flit`` build system, your

> installation step will be::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installation step is::
```

      - name: Install the library and dependencies
        run: |
          pip install flit
          flit install

Run the unit tests via ``pytest`` with::

      - name: Test and show coverage
        working-directory: tests
        run: pytest --cov ansys.product.library

.. note::

>    Replace ``ansys.product.library`` with your library. This should match how it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Replace ``ansys.product.library`` with your library name. This should match how it
```

   ``ansys-product-library`` use ``ansys.product.library``.

Optionally, though highly recommended, upload your unit test coverage to
`codecov.io`_ with::

      - uses: codecov/codecov-action@v2
        name: 'Upload coverage to Codecov'

See the following section regarding the usage of `codecov.io`_.

Code Coverage Enforcement
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
One way of enforcing unit test coverage with a project on GitHub is to use the
`codecov.io CI Bot`_ to enforce minimum patch (and optionally project)
coverage. As this application is already available to the `PyAnsys Organization
<https://github.com/pyansys>`_, simply add the following to the root directory
of your repository:

**/codecov.yml**

::

   comment:
     layout: "diff"
     behavior: default

   coverage:
     status:
       project:
         default:
           # basic
           # target: 50%
           threshold: 0%
           # advanced
           if_not_found: success
           if_ci_failed: error
           if_no_uploads: error
       patch:
         default:
           # basic
           target: 90%
           if_not_found: success
           if_ci_failed: error
           if_no_uploads: error

> This requires that each PR has a patch coverage of 90%, meaning that 90% any source added to the repository (unless ignored) must be covered by unit tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This requires that each PR has a patch coverage of 90%, meaning that 90% of any source added to the repository (unless ignored) must be covered by unit tests.
```

.. note::
   This is only a sample configuration.

> Test Driven Development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test-Driven Development
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Remote Method Invocation Testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In the case of a Remote Method Invocation (RMI)-like method, it is only necessary
to test the method with a basic case and potentially with any edge cases.

RMI Service Definition:

.. code::

   message SendCommand()

Python Wrapping

.. code::

   def send_command(command):
       """Run a command on the server.

       Parameters
       ----------
       command : str

>            Command to run on the remote server. Should be in the form of

Reviewer: Command to run on the remote server, which should be in the form ?

Files Layout
~~~~~~~~~~~~
PyAnsys libraries should use ``unittest`` or ``pytest`` libraries to run individual
unit tests contained within a ``tests`` directory in the root of the project.  The

> testing specific files of your project should at a minimum include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specific test files for your project should at a minimum include:
```
